we have heard learned counsel on both sides.	F
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.	F
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh 's indian trade marks.	F
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.	F
on april 241954sen.	F
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.	F
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.	F
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.	F
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.	F
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.	F
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.	F
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.	F
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.	F
u s 482 of the act up to the date of one month before filing that rectification application.	F
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.	F
having regard to the extended nature of non user of the concerned trade mark after november 11976any further use of the said trade marks by the respondents was likely to deceive and cause confusion to the trade and public alike in india.	F
simultaneously an application for registration of three trade marks an their favour was filed by the appellant on march 251982.	F
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user 's applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.	F
the learned single judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated september 131990 holding inter alia that any proprietor mentioned in s 461b of the act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.	F
special circumstances as a defense were available to the respondent for non user even after 1979the supply technical know how by the respondent was not totally absent.	F
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.	F
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.	F
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.	F
though the collaboration and registered user agreements stood expired from october 311981no agreement came to be executes nor continued to use the specifications on technical know how.	F
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.	F
the appellant was unable to prove that there had been no such user of the trade mark for a continuous period of 61 months or longer and the lack of bona fide intention the expression by any registered proprietors in s 461b should not be restricted to user by proprietor or registered user who should also include bona fide or authorized users the legislature did not intend to register proprietor to be deprived of their property at the instance of user whose use is unregistered.	F
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.	F
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.	F
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.	F
the power u s 46 is discretionary.	F
in view of the appellant 's conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.	F
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.	F
thus this appeal by special leave.	F
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.	A
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.	A
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.	A
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.	A
the harmonious construction should be put up in such a way that s 482 and s 466 by of the act could be permitted to have their full play in their operational structure.	A
the construction put up by the high court renders sub s 2 of s 48 otiose or surplus age which interpretation is impermissible.	A
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.	A
the division bench therefore was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.	A
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.	A
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.	A
for over a long period the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.	A
the respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.	A
the burden is on tile respondents to prove that non user was due to special circumstance of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether special circumstances had arisen or not since the respondents were not using the trade mark since april 201954the plea of special circumstances is not available to the respondents.	A
the division bench or the learned single judge did not record any finding as to the period up to which the bicycles could be imported into india and the period during which the ban was imposed but for which the respondent had an intention to import bicycles but were prevented to do so due to the ban.	A
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.	A
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.	A
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.	A
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.	A
according to the learned counsel the respondents have collaboration agreement with sen raleigh which was taken over by the government under idr act and the appellant came to manufacture with the technical know how supplied by the respondents the raleigh bicycles under the trade mark registered by the respondents in the register of the registrar under the act.	A
the appellant was using the same as an agent.	A
the operation of s 482 must be construed in such a way that the bona fide user even by a non registered user so long as there exist a rational connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and passes off the goods in the market manufactured by the appellant is construed to be a bona fide user for and on behalf of the registered proprietor namely the respondents.	A
admitted position is that the respondent being the registered proprietor until it is proved that its trade mark was not used to pass off the goods manufactured by the appellant and that the appellant had discontinued the user and 5 years lapsed thereafter the non use of the trade mark continues thereafter the rectification application u s 46 1b would be ordered.	A
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.	A
the special circumstance is that the appellant filed an application for registration u s 481 and continued it till it was abandoned.	A
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.	A
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.	A
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.	R
s 461b reads as under.	S
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.	S
subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a xxx xxx xxx xxx b that up to a date of one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.	S
sub s 3 envisages that an application shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub s 1 or for purpose of sub s 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.	S
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.	S
it would thus be apparent that subject to section 46for a registered trade mark up to date within one month before the date of making application for rectification for a continuous period of 5 years or longer if registered trade mark had not been use during that period there was no bona fide user in relation to those goods by the proprietor thereof for the time being.	S
the trade mark should be taken off and struck out form the register of trade marks in respect of any goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered sub s 3 enables the registered proprietor to show special circumstances for the non use of the trade mark due to which circumstances in the trade he could not use the trade mark for the above period and not with any intention to abandon the use of trade mark or not to use the trade mark in relation to good to which the application for rectification relates.	S
sub s 2 of s 48 give defence to permitted user in relation to a registered trade mark.	S
it means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.	S
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.	S
the permitted use of trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed no to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under the act or any other law.	S
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.	S
it would therefore be clear that a permitted use of the trade mark should be done under sub s 1 of section 48 it.	R
should be either by the registered proprietor of the trade mark or a person other than the registered proprietor registered u s 481 to use the trade mark by operation of sub section 2 an un registered person u s 481 or a person who did not register u s 1 of s 48 shall not be deemed to be a registered user for the purpose of s 46 or any other law.	R
the high court recorded a finding and it is not disputed across the bar that the appellant had entered into an agreement with sen raleigh which was a permitted user and used the trade mark till november 11976 and thereafter by registered user agreement dated december 201976 used trade mark for a period of 5 years.	R
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.	R
the question therefore is whether the appellant must be deemed to be bona fide user of the trade mark though there was no agreement nor was it registered as permitted user u s 481.	R
on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who admittedly is a registered proprietor.	R
it is true as held by this court that to get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling it to others the right to use it as a commodity would be trafficking in that trade mark.	R
it requires to be prevented and prohibited.	R
the court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.	R
there must be real trade connection between the proprietor of the trade and licensee of the goods and the intention to use the trade mark must exist at the date of the application for registration of trade mark and such intention must be genuine and bona fide and continue to subsist in order to disprove the charge of trafficking in trade mark.	R
it is a question of fact in every case.	R
the question is whether the trade connection exists to dispel the charge of trafficking in the trade mark.	R
this question was considered by this court in american home products corporation vs mac laboratories pvt ltd and anr 1985 indlaw sc 464 and they need no reiteration.	P
it is seen that preceding the nationalization of the cycle manufacturing industry under the idr act the respondent had a collaboration agreement with sen raliegh who was a registered user under section 48 from him the appellant came to succeed by statutory operation.	R
it was therefore not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the predecessor act and continuing under the act for trafficking of the trade mark.	R
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.	R
the benefit of s 46 would be available during the period for which the agreement registered and user continued in furtherance thereof.	R
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee 's goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.	R
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor 's trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.	R
it would connect the registered proprietor and the user of the trade mark by the unregistered lincesee.	R
the appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of s 461b.	R
in k r beri and co vs.	P
the metal godds mfg.	P
co pvt limited and anr.	P
air 1980 delhi 299 1980 indlaw del 180the division bench construed s 482 and held that an unregistered user of the trade mark even with the consent of the proprietor can not be construed to be a registered user u s 481 and such construction renders sub s 2 of s 48 surplus age or otios which is impermissible by statutory construction.	P
we have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.	P
on strict interpretation the view of the division bench may be correct but it is not correct to hold that by a bona fide user of an unregistered user when connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and the permitted user in relation to passing off the goods under the trade mark are proved it does not render sub section 2 of s 48 surplus age or otios.	P
it is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under s 463 equally the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non user for the relevant period.	P
then the burden shifts to the proprietor of the trade mark to affirmatively prove the special circumstances for non user of trade mark.	P
it must be shown that the non use of the trade mark is due to special circumstances of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether the special circumstances had arisen off not.	P
although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.	P
if the non user was in fact due to some other circumstances and would have occured whether the circumstances had followed or not subs 3 would not apply.	P
it must therefore be duty of the registered proprietor to show what non user was strictly due to the special circumstances of trade and not of any intention on the part of the registered proprietor not to use the trade mark during the relevant period.	P
though there was a ban on impart of the raleigh cycles manufactured outside india and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor the circumstances do not attracted sub section 3 of s 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non user but on the facts of this case we have the admitted position that sen raleigh admittedly was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor there is no discontinuance or non use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.	R
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.	R
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.	R
is not attracted to the facts in this case.	R
the question then is whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the division bench as well the single judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the registrar of trade marks.	R
it is true that while exercising discretion the court u s 46 of the act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest in para 21 82 at page 386 of the law of trade marks and passing off by p narayanan 4th ed it is stated that the court or the registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.	R
ordinarily however the mark will be expunged taken off when the factual circumstances necessary for the removal are established unless it is shown that the case comes within the exceptions provided in the sub section 3 the high court refused to exercise the discretion to strike off the trade mark from the register.	R
it is seen that the appellant had not abandoned at any point of time the use of the trade mark of the respondent registered proprietor till filing of the application.	R
though the appellant has not used the trade mark by itself since 1954 and after the expiry of the permitted use by sen raleigh until the notice was issued by the respondent directing the appellant not to use the trade mark the appellant came to use the same in passing off bicycles manufactured by it under trade mark of the respondent.	R
it is not relevant for the purpose of s 461b whether the bicycles were manufactured with the assistance of technical know how passed on by sen raleigh or the permitted user.	R
suffice it to state that the appellant as a fact had used the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles manufactured by it.	R
the high court in our view declined for good reasons to rectify the trade mark under section act b of the act.	R
we are also not persuaded to take a different view from that of the high court.	R
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.	R
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but in the circumstances without costs.	RPC
