these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.	F
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.	F
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.	F
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.	F
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.	F
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.	F
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.	F
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.	F
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.	A
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.	A
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.	A
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.	F
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.	F
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.	F
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.	F
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.	F
the government 's letter dated 28 12 1988 refers to some decision but in the absence of any authentication as required under article 166 of the constitution of india 1950 in short the constitution the same is ineffective.	F
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.	F
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.	A
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.	A
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.	A
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.	A
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.	A
of tamil nadu ors on 27 1 1984 and in c a 86052002 i e bannari amman sugars ltd v commercial tax officer.	A
on 22 1 1986.	A
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.	A
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.	F
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.	F
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.	F
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.	F
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.	F
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.	F
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.	F
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.	F
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.	F
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.	F
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.	F
with reference to the files produced certain factual conclusions were arrived at the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.	F
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.	F
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.	F
the doctrine of promissory estoppel has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.	F
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.	P
the rule laid down in high trees case supra again came up for consideration before the king 's bench in combe v bombe 1951 2 k b 215.	P
therein the court ruled that the principle stated in high trees 's case supra is that where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he himself has so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration but only by his word.	P
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.	P
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.	P
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.	P
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.	P
sc 718 1967 indlaw sc 411 and turner morrison and co ltd v hungerford investment trust ltd 1972 1 scc 857 1972 indlaw sc 190.	P
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.	P
promissory estoppel is defined in black 's law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.	P
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies 's case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.	P
see century spinning co v ulhasnagar municipal council air 1971.	P
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.	P
sc 1496 1977 indlaw sc 282 motilal padampat sugar mills co ltd v state of u p 1979 2 scc 409 1978 indlaw sc 56 union of india v godfrey philips indian ltd 1985 4 scc 369 1985 indlaw sc 275 and dr ashok kumar maheshwari v state of u p another 1998 2 supreme 100 1998 indlaw sc 1376.	P
in the backdrop let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.	P
dixon j an australian jurists in grundt v great boulder gold mines prorietary ltd 1939 59 clr 641 aust laid down as under it is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.	P
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.	P
that purpose is to avoid or prevent a detriment to the party asserting the estoppel by compelling the opposite party to adhere to the assumption upon which the former acted or abstained from acting.	P
this means that the real detriment or harm from which the law seeks to give protection is that which would flow from the change of position if the assumptions were deserted that led to it.	P
the principle set out above was reiterated by lord denning in high trees 's case supra.	P
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.	P
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.	P
its object is to interpose equity shorn of its form to mitigate the rigour of strict law as noted in anglo afghan aencies 's case1967 indlaw sc 411 supra and sharma transport represented by d p sharma v government of a p and others 2002 2 scc 188 2001 indlaw sc 19917.	P
no vested right as to tax holding is acquired by a person who is granted concession.	R
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.	R
the rule of promissory estoppel can be invoked only if on the basis of representation made by the government the industry was established to avail benefit if of exemption.	R
in kasinka trading and anr v union of india and anr.	P
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.	P
it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.	P
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.	R
the expectation may arise either from a representation or promise made by the authority including an implied representation or from consistent past practice.	R
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.	R
it is however not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case it is enough merely to note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who can not point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the court to apply for judicial review.	R
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.	R
the doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such involved.	R
the protection of such legitimate expectation does not require the fulfilment of the expectation where an overriding public interest requires otherwise.	R
in other words where a person 's legitimate expectation in not fulfilled by taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.	R
see union of india and others.	R
v hindustan development corporation and others air 1994.	R
sc 9981993 indlaw sc 1085.	R
while the discretion to change the policy in exercise of the executive power when not trammelled by any statute or rule is wide enough what is imperative and implicit in terms of article 14 is that a change in policy must be made fairly and should not give impression that it was so done arbitrarily or by any ulterior criteria.	R
the wide sweep of article 14 and the requirement of every state action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the state is an accepted tenet.	R
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.	R
actions are amenable in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the state must act validity for discernible reasons not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.	R
the meaning and true import and concept of arbitrariness is more easily visualized than precisely defined.	R
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.	R
a basic and obvious test to apply in such cases is to see whether there is any discernible principle emerging from the impugned action and if so does if really satisfy the test of reasonableness.	R
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.	R
every state action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary.	R
this court 's observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.	R
but there has to be a word of caution.	R
something overwhelming must appear before the court will intervene.	R
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.	R
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.	R
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court 's view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.	R
on the contrary curial views of policy have been subjected to stringent criticism.	R
as professor wade points out in administrative law by h w r wade 6th edition there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.	R
the reasonableness in administrative law must therefore distinguish between proper course and improper abuse of power.	R
nor is the test court 's own standard of reasonableness as it might conceive it in a given situation.	R
the point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it to be unwise.	R
in hindustan development corporation 's case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.	R
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.	R
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.	R
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.	P
the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.	P
it is therefore clear that the choice of police is for the decision maker and not the court.	P
the legitimate substantive expectation merely permits the court to find out if the change of policy which is the cause for defeating the legitimate expectation is irrational or perverse or one which no reasonable person could have made.	P
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.	P
its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time present past and future.	P
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.	P
the present is as we experience it the past is a present memory and future is a present expectation.	R
for legal purposes expectation is not same as anticipation.	R
legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.	R
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.	R
moreover the negotiation of a legitimate expectation falling short of a legal right is too nebulous to form a basis for invalidating the exercise of a power when its exercise otherwise accords with law.	R
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.	R
it can be one of the grounds to consider but the court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.	R
it depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.	R
it follows that the concept of legitimate expectation is not the key which unlocks the treasure of natural justice and it ought not to unlock the gates which shuts the court out of review on the merits particularly when the elements of speculation and uncertainty are inherent in that very concept.	R
as cautioned in attorney general for new south wale 's case the courts should restrain themselves and respect such claims duly to the legal limitations.	R
it is a well meant caution.	R
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.	R
the caution particularly in the changing scenario becomes all the more important.	R
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.	R
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.	R
reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.	R
a restriction can not be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case it operates harshly.	R
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.	R
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.	R
see parbhani transport co operative society ltd v regional transport authority aurangabad and others air 1960.	R
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.	R
sc 3651973 indlaw sc 291 hari chand sarda v mizo district council and another air 1967 sc 829 1966 indlaw sc 125 krishnan kakkanth v government of kerala and others air 1997.	R
sc 128 1996 indlaw sc 1845 and union of india and another v international trading co and another 2003 5 scc 437 2003 indlaw sc 472.	R
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.	S
the said provision reads as follows 166.	S
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.	S
2 orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the governor and the validity of an order or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order or instrument made or executed by the governor.	S
the governor shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the government of the state and for the allocating among ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the governor is by or under this constitution required to act in his discretion.	S
clause 1 requires that all executive action of the state government shall have to be taken in the name of the governor.	R
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.	R
what the court has to see is whether the substance of its requirement has been complied with.	R
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.	R
v state of mysore and ors.	R
air 1964.	R
sc 1823 1964 indlaw sc 103 held that the provisions of the article were only directory and not mandatory in character and if they were not complied with it could still be established as a question of fact that the impugned order was issued in fact by the state government or the governor.	R
clause 1 does not prescribe how an executive action of the government is to be performed it only prescribes the mode under which such act is to be expressed.	R
while clause 1 is in relation to the mode of expression clause 2 lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.	R
whether there is any government order in terms of article 166 has to be adjudicated from the factual background of each case.	R
in order to invoke the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear sound and positive foundation must be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking and doctrine the bald expressions without any supporting material to the effect that the doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine has altered its position relying on the assurance of the government would not be sufficient to press into aid the doctrine.	R
the courts are bound to consider all aspects including the results sought to be achieved and the public good at large because while considering the applicability of the doctrine the courts have to do equity and the fundamental principles of equity must for ever be present in the mind of the court.	R
in shrijee sales corporation and anr v union of india 1997 3 scc 398 1996 indlaw sc 1561 it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.	P
if there is a supervening public equity the government would be allowed to change its stand and has the power to withdraw from representation made by it which induced persons to take certain steps which may have gone adverse to the interest of such persons on account of such withdrawal.	P
moreover the government is competent to rescind from the promise even if there is no manifest public interest involved provided no one is put in any adverse situation which can not be rectified.	P
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.	P
v u p state electricity board and others air 1997.	P
sc 3910 1997 indlaw sc 1364 and in sales tax officers and anr.	P
v shree durga oil mills and anr.	P
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.	P
if the party claiming application of the doctrine acted on the basis of a notification it should have known that such notification was liable to be amended or rescinded at any point of time if the government felt that it was necessary to do so in public interest.	P
in view of the factual position recorded by the high court that at the point of time the appellants units were set up and the commercial production started there was no assurance or promise.	R
the doctrine of promissory estoppel had no application to the facts of the case at that stage.	R
we find no substance in the plea that before a policy decision is taken to amend or alter the promise indicated in any particular notification the beneficiary was to be granted an opportunity of hearing.	R
such a plea is clearly unsustainable.	R
while taking policy decision the government is not required to hear the persons who have been granted the benefit which is sought to be withdrawn.	R
the question of legitimate expectation arises according to the appellants after the benefits were granted by the concerned g o ms.	R
at this juncture we would like to take note to certain factual positions highlighted by the appellants which are practically undisputed by the respondents.	R
contrary to what the high court has stated it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.	R
the reasons which have weighed with the high court to uphold the action of the state were not pleaded before the high court specifically and the high court cull out those from the files which were produced before it.	R
though the appellants were not entitled to any opportunity of hearing before alteration of the benefits flowing from the notifications or withdrawal of any benefit yet when the state has not taken any specific stand justifying the withdrawal and the high court referred to the files to put its seal of proof notwithstanding non requirement for granting any opportunity before the withdrawal principles of natural justice certainly were applicable since the high court with reference to the files recorded findings on the basis thereof.	R
as noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the tribunal or the high court as the case may be.	R
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.	R
further a definite plea was taken that there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal of benefit by an executive order.	R
the high court has not dealt with the issue.	R
the same also needs to be examined.	R
above being the position decision of the high court by placing reliance on the files to hold that the withdrawal was justified is not tenable in law and in the fitness of things the high court should hear the matter afresh and taken decision on those two issues.	R
it is made clear that we have not expressed any opinion on those issues on the facts of the present case.	R
it is to be noted that no privilege was claimed from production of the file as the files were produced before the high court and in fact the high court referred to the materials on the files to affirm state 's action.	R
we direct that the state government if it so chooses shall file its further counter affidavits before the high court within six weeks from today indicating the reasons which warranted the withdrawal of the benefits extended.	R
the plea of the appellants regarding legitimate expectation shall be considered by the high court in the light of materials to be placed by the respondents by affidavits as directed above.	R
we make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the factual aspects except indicating the principles underlying legitimate expectation.	R
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.	R
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.	R
to the aforesaid limited extent the matter is remitted to the high court for fresh consideration.	RPC
the appeals are disposed of accordingly without any order as to costs.	RPC
appeals disposed of.	RPC
