for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.	F
this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.	F
quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.	F
provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.	F
this is what has exactly happened in this case resulting into utter confusion with regard to pending fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 in the high court u s 116 of the indian patents.	F
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.	F
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.	F
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd.	F
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.	F
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.	F
thus proceedings commenced before the controller of patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no 3 in the year 2000 by then the patents amendment act1999 had amended the patents act1970 w e f 26 3 99 s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act1999 dealt with opposition to a patent vides s 25 at that time appeals against decisions made by the controller pertaining to pre grant oppositions under s 25 were maintainable before the high court u s 1162 of the indian patents act1970.	F
we quote herein below ss 25 and 116 as it stood in the year 2000 under the patents amendment act1999 which read as under s 25 opposition to grant of patent.	S
1 at any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this act or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid any person interested may give notice to the controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds namely a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document provided that the ground specified in sub cl ii shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of sub s 2 or sub s 3 of section 29 that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant 's claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant 's claim a that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.	S
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.	S
but on no other ground.	S
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.	S
the grant of a patent shall not be refused on the ground stated in cl c of sub s 1 if no patent has been granted in pursuance of the application mentioned in that clause and for the purpose of any inquiry u cl d or cl e of that sub section no account shall be taken of any secret use.	S
s 116 appeals.	S
no appeal shall lie from any decision order or correction made of issued under this act by the central government or from any act or order of the controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision order or direction.	S
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.	S
19section.	S
20section 25section.	S
27section 28section.	S
51section 54section 57section.	S
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.	S
every appeal under this section shall be in writing and shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or within such further time as the high court may in accordance with the rules made by it u s 158 allow.	S
emphasis supplied by us.	S
suffice it to note that under patents amendment act1999 there was only one right given to a person interested to oppose the grant of patent by filing objections at the pre grant stage.	S
under the said amendment act1999as stated above vide.	S
s 116 2.	S
a right of appeal was available to the aggrieved party against orders passed under s 25 the said appellate remedy was available by way of an appeal to the high court.	S
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.	F
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.	F
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.	F
that provision came to be made only under the patents amendment act2005 which was promulgated on 4 4 2005 w e f 1 1 2005.	F
vide s 47 of the patents amendment act2002 entire chapter xix stood substituted.	S
ss 116 and 117a were reworded which read as under s 116 1 subject to the provisions of this act the appellate board established u s 83 of the trade marks act1999 shall be the appellate board for the purposes of this act and the said appellate board shall exercise the jurisdiction power and authority conferred on it by or under this act.	S
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.	S
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.	S
a has at least five years hold the post of controller under this act or has exercised the functions of the controller under this act for at least five years or.	S
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.	S
section 117a 1.	S
save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 2no appeal shall lie from any decision order or direction made or issued under this act by the central government or from any act or order of the controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision order or direction.	S
an appeal shall lie to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller or central government under section 15section.	S
16section 17section.	S
18section.	S
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.	S
66sub s 3 of section 69section.	S
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.	S
every appeal under this section shall be in prescribed form and shall be verified in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the decision order or direction appealed against any by such fees as may be prescribed.	S
every appeal shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or the central government or within such further time as the appellate board may in accordance with the rules made by it allow.	S
the provisions of the said amendment act2002however were not simultaneously brought into force.	F
suffice it to note that ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.	F
however s 25 was brought into force vide notification dated 20 5 2003 even as on 20 5 2003 vide s 25 only one right to oppose a patent at the pre grant stage was available and appeal against an order passed by the earlier lay before the high court under the then existing s 116 of the patents.	F
act1970 for the reason that the amended ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.	F
without giving effect to the amendments to ss 116 and 117a suggested by s 47 of the patents amendment.	F
act2002on 4 4 2005.	F
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.	F
only certain sections of the patents amendment act2005 were brought into force.	F
vide s 23 of the patents amendment.	S
act2005the then existing s 25 was substituted.	S
the substituted s 25 reads as under 25 opposition to the patent 1.	S
where an application for a patent has been published but a patent has not been granted any person may in writing represent by way of opposition to the controller against the grant of patent on the ground a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant 's claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant 's claim.	S
d that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.	S
explanation.	S
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.	S
at any time after the grant of patent but before the expiry of a period of one year from the date of publication of grant of a patent any person interested may give notice of opposition to the controller in the prescribed manner on any of the following grounds namely a that the patentee or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the claim of the patentee and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the claim of the patentee explanation  for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is granted shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only.	S
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.	S
having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground.	S
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.	S
b on receipt of such notice of opposition the controller shall by order in writing constitute a board to be known as the opposition board consisting of such officers as he may determine and refer such notice of opposition along with the documents to that board for examination and submission of its recommendations to the controller.	S
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.	S
on receipt of the recommendation of the opposition board and after giving the patentee and the opponent an opportunity of being heard the controller shall order either to maintain or to amend or to revoke the patent.	S
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.	S
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.	S
in case the controller issues an order under sub s 4 that the patent shall be maintained subject to amendment of the specification or any other document the patent shall stand amended accordingly.	S
we also quote s 61 of the patents amendment act2005 which reads as under s 61 in section 117a of the principal act as inserted by s 47 of the patents amendment act2002in.	S
sub section 2for the words and figures section 20section 25section 27section 28the words figures and brackets section 20sub s 4 of section 25section 28 shall be substituted.	S
this section was not brought into force till 2 4 2007.	S
in short by the patents amendment act2005for the first time a dichotomy was introduced in the patent law between opposition to the pre grant and opposition to the post grant of patent.	R
this was the major structural change in the patent law.	R
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.	R
here also s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act2005.	R
which refers to pre grant opposition and post grant opposition was brought into force on and from 1 1 2005 whereas amended section 117a by which appeal was provided for against post grant opposition order was not brought into force till 2 4 2007 one more aspect needs to be mentioned.	R
as stated vide patents amendment.	R
act2005a dichotomy was brought in between pre grant and post grant opposition orders.	R
w e f 1 1 2005 but when it came to filing of first appeal for some unknown reasons the amended section 117a which provided for only one statutory appeal and that too against post grant orders passed by the controller was not brought into force.	R
the result is that although the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board by reason of s 61 of the patents amendment act2005 not being brought into force till 2 4 07 a strange situation developed.	R
the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board but by not bringing s 61 into force till 2 4 07appeals filed during the interregnum as in this case became vulnerable and liable to be dismissed as misconceived as is contended by the appellant.	R
this is the controversy which needs to be resolved in this case.	R
on 19 10 2006 when fao no 29306 was filed in the high court chapter xix of the parent act as amended vide patents amendment.	R
act1999 continued to be in operation notwithstanding the enactment of the patents.	R
amendment act2002 and the patents amendment.	R
act2005 as the amended ss 116 and 117a were brought into force only vide notification dated 2 4 07 one more point needs to be noted.	R
section 117 g of the principal act was substituted vide patents amendment act2005 it reads as under section 117g transfer of pending proceedings to appellate board  all cases of appeals against any order or decision of the controller and all cases pertaining to revocation of patent other than on a counter claim in a suit for infringement and rectification of register pending before any high court shall be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette and the appellate board may proceed with the matter either de novo or from the stage it was so transferred.	S
on reading amended section 117 g it becomes clear that all appeals against any order or decision of the controller had to be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette.	R
this amended section 117 g was also brought into force vide notification dated 3 4 2007 under notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified vide cl 62.	R
that amended s 117 g is consequential to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the appellate board u s 64 which results to revocation of patent.	R
vide cl 47 of notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified that s 64 is also amended vide patents amendment act2005 to confer wider jurisdiction on the appellate board in matters of revocation of patent therefore amended section 117 g which is brought into force only from 3 4 2007 dealt with transfer of pending proceedings from the high court to the appellate board.	R
the question which arises for determination in this batch of civil appeals is whether fao no 29206 and fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 herein in the high court were liable to be dismissed.	R
according to the appellant with the change in s 25 brought about by patents amendment act2005a dichotomy was introduced in the patents act1970 according to the appellant that dichotomy was between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.	R
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.	A
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.	A
no 3 to move an application opposing grant of patent under s 252 the patent was granted to the appellant on 22 9 06 according to the appellant it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by making post grant opposition under s 252 from which an appeal was maintainable to the appellate board.	A
this was not done.	A
further according to the appellantpre grant opposition was filed by respondent no 3 under s 251 on 21 3 05 according to the appellant though the patents amendment act2005amended s 25 by enacting the amendment on 4 4 05 the said amendment was brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 and therefore it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by invoking s 252 of the patents act1970 according to the appellant with the change in the structure of the act providing for only one statutory appeal and that too only against the order granting patent under s 254the appeal filed by respondent no 3 against pre grant opposition order was not maintainable on 19 10 06 by which time as stated above s 25 stood restructured providing for a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.	A
on the other hand on behalf of respondent no 3it has been urged that on 19 10 06 it had filed an appeal in the high court under unamended s 116 of the parent act that even though s 25 stood restructured w e f 1 1 05 on account of absence of notification bringing the amended law into force ss 116 and 117a as amended providing appeal to the appellate board came into force only with effect from 2 4 07 and therefore according to the said respondent its first appeal being fao no 29306 continued to be governed by the law as it stood on 19 10 06 on which date appeal to the high court was maintainable that on 23 8 06 the pre grant oppositionfiled by respondent no 3stood rejected.	A
however on that date appeal against pre grant opposition order was maintainable under section 116to the high court and therefore there is no merit in the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant that the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 was misconceived that it is true that s 25 got restructured w e f 1 1 2005however such restructuring did not obliterate the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 on 19 10 2006.	R
and lastly it was argued on behalf respondent no 3 that the appellant had filed its application for grant of patent on 14 6 2000it was notified on 20 11 04however respondent no 3 had filed its pre grant opposition under s 251 on 21 3 05 when the patents amendment act2005 was not promulgated it was promulgated on 4 4 05 and therefore according to respondent no 3 its pre grant opposition filed on 21 3 05 was valid and proper as respondent no 3 could not have invoked s 252 proceedings on that day namely21 3 05 as the law stood enacted bringing in s 252 only on 4 4 05 in the peculiar circumstances of this case it was urged on behalf of respondent no 3 that no interference is called for by this court in this batch of civil appeals.	A
as stated above quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specific future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.	R
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.	R
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.	R
applying the above tests to the present case we find that by patents amendment act2005 for the first time a dichotomy was inserted in the patent law by providing vide s 251 for opposition to pre grant and vide s 25 2 for opposition to post grant of patent.	R
by reason of patents amendment act2005the kind of opposition available under the said 1970 act is different from what existed earlier.	R
previously there was no post grant opposition.	R
previously the only provision of challenge by an interested party was a pre grant challenge under s 25 1 as it then stood.	R
therefore the courts had evolved the rule of caution as the patent had not faced any challenge at the hands of interested parties.	R
there is however a radical shift due to incorporation of s 252 where an interested party is granted the right to challenge the patent after its grant.	R
the ground of challenge under s 251 is identical to s 252 of the said 1970 act.	R
however s 251 is wider than s 252 as the latter is available only to a person aggrieved.	R
the main difference between s 251 and s 252as brought about by patents amendment.	R
act2005is that even after a patent is grantedpost grant opposition can be filed under s 25 2 for a period of one year.	R
the reason is obvious.	R
in relation to patents that are of recent origin a higher scrutiny is necessary.	R
this is the main rationale underlying s 252 of the said 1970 act.	R
therefore the legislature intended an appeal under section 117a2 to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller inter alia under s 254 which refers to the power of the controller to maintain amend or revoke the patent.	R
in the present case the legislature intended to provide for two types of scrutiny followed by one statutory appeal to the appellate board against post grant proceedings.	R
the legislature intended to have a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.	R
however the legislature intended that there shall be only one statutory appeal against grant of patent.	R
the legislature intended to obliterate appeal from pre grant proceedingswhich existed earlier.	R
however it was left to the executive to bring the enacted law into force vide notification.	R
for some unknown reasons the amended ss 116 and 117a2 were not brought into force till 2 4 07 whereas the concept of pre grant and post grant oppositions were brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 this is where the legislative intent got defeated during the interregnum.	R
it is during this interregnum that respondent no 3 filed its fao no 29306 in the high court under section 116as.	R
it stood on 19 10 06 under the patents amendment act1999 on that date the amended section 117a suggested by patents amendment act2005was not brought into force.	R
on 19 10 06 the old law prevailed under which an appeal lay before the high court.	R
respondent no 3in both the cases preferred first appeals to the high court u s 116 as it then stood.	R
they are fao no 29206 and fao.	R
no 29306 we have to decide the fate of these pending appeals.	R
one more aspect needs to be mentioned.	R
under the patents amendment act2005appeal is provided to the appellate board against the order of the controller under s 254 however that statutory appeal is maintainable only in post grant opposition proceedings whereas respondent no 3 herein has instituted first appeals under the law then prevailing challenging the order rejecting pre grant opposition dated 23 8 06.	R
taking into account the complexities involved in this case on account of a hiatus created by reason of the law not being brought into force in time we are of the view that the first appeals filed by respondent no 3 in the high court being fao.	R
no 29206 and fao.	R
no 29306would remain in the high court.	R
the said appeals would be heard and disposed of by the high court in accordance with law u s 116 of the said 1970 act as it stood on 19 10 06 the high court will hear and decide the validity of the order passed by the controller dated 23 8 06 rejecting pre grant opposition filed by respondent.	R
no 3 we are informed that there are hardly one or two matters of this nature which are pending.	R
therefore we are of the view that respondent.	R
no 3 can not be let without remedy.	R
in the special circumstances of this case particularly when after 2 4 07 appeals against orders rejecting pre grant opposition are not maintainable and particularly when fao no 29206 and fao no 29306 were filed by respondent no 3 prior to 2 4 07 under the old law we are of the view that these two appeals shall be heard and decided by the high court in accordance with law.	R
the appellate board after 2 4 07 is entitled to hear appeals only arising from orders passed by the controller under s 254i e.	R
in cases of orders passed in post grant opposition.	R
therefore there is no point in transferring the pending fao no 29206 and fao no 29306 to the appellate board which has no authority to decide matters concerning pre grant opposition.	R
moreover it may be noted that even section 117g which refers to transfer of pending proceedings to the appellate board is also brought into force vide notification dated 3 4 07 keeping in mind the peculiar nature of the problem in hand we are of the view that ends of justice.	R
would be sub served if the high court is directed to hear and decide the appeals bearing fao no 29206 and fao no 29306 in accordance with law as it then stood i e.	R
u s 116 under patents.	R
amendment act1999 against orders passed by the controller in pre grant opposition proceedings.	R
accordingly the two civil appeals filed by the appellant herein stand disposed of with no order as to costs.	RPC
appeal disposed of.	RPC
