FACTS
the accused-appellant has been held guily of of-fences punishable under section 302 and section 376(2)(f) of indian penal code.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr. p.c., the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence
kumari s, a young child aged about 5 years, was last seen at about 4 p.m. on 18th march, 1991 and thereafter she did not return home. at about 7 a.m. on 19th march 1991, kishori lal, pw4 informed bd (pw2), the unfortunate father of s, that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
the dead body was sent for post-mortem examination which was performed at 9.30 a.m., on the same day, by a medical board of three doctors.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post- fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group-b blood on the clothes of deceased.
the clothes of the accussed recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory. according to report human semen was detected on underwear and human blood of group 'b' was detected on the underwear.

ARGUMENT
the learned counsel for the accused-appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v. state of maharashtra, air (1981. sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302  ipc  was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
one of the circumstan-tial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of 'b' group was found on the accused's pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under-pant of the accused.
the court held that the presence of blood-stain of 'b' group measuring 0.5 cm. in diameter on the appellant's pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under-pant, were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim. b' group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant's under-pant, the court observed that the accused was a grown-up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
on his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
presence of semen stain on underwear, assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard, is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.
so also the discov-ery of 'b' group blood-stain on the underwear cannot be treated as an incrimi-nating piece of evidence against the accused connecting him with the crime because there is no evidence that the underwear belonged to the accused and further the possiblity of the underwear being stained with the blood of the person to whom it belonged, or the accused if he was wearing it has not been ruled out

ISSUE
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.


ANALYSIS
there is nothing in child witness’s  statement to suggest that what she is narrating in the court is the story of a day soon before the date and time of the incident or the date on which dead body of s was found. to constitute evidence of last seen together, the evidence must definitely permit an inference being drawn that the victim and the accused were seen together at a point of time in close proximity with the time and date of the commission of crime.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town, if called by police and interrogated as a suspect, would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr. p.c. and nowhere suggested during cross-examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place. see law lexicon, p. ramnath iyer, second edition, p.87.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not, by any stretch of reasoning or logic, amount to pleading alibi.
the accused-appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false, and then drawing an inference adverse to him, does not arise at all.
v) absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so-called absconding as a piece of incrimi-nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating, by the trial court and the high court, can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
though the offence is gruesome and revolts the human conscience but an accused can be convicted only on legal evidence and if only a chain of circumstantial evidence has been so forged as to rule out the possibility of any other reasonable hypothesis excepting the guilt of the accused.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 (supra), this court cautioned - "human nature is too willing, when faced with brutal crimes, to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
the court has held time and again that between may be true and must be true there is a long distance to travel which must be covered by clear, cogent and unimpeachable evidence by the prosecu-tion before an accused is condemned a convict.
the trial court and the high court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evi-dence out of which we have found, as stated hereinabove, four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
the factum of a cognizable crime having been committed is known but neither the identity of the accused is disclosed nor is there any indication available of the witnesses who would be able to furnish useful and relevant evidence.
such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
the ends, which the administration of cirminal justice serves, are not achieved merely by catching hold of the culprit.
the accusation has to be proved to hilt in a court of law.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
this is necessary to exclude the likelihood of any innocent having been picked up and branded as culprit and then the gravity of the offence arousing human sympathy persuading the mind to be carried away by doubtful or dubious circumstances treating them as of 'beyond doubt' evidentiary value.

