FACTS
kumari s, a young child aged about 5 years, was last seen at about 4 p.m. on 18th march, 1991 and thereafter she did not return home. at about 7 a.m. on 19th march 1991, kishori lal, pw4 informed bd (pw2), the unfortunate father of s, that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
the dead body was sent for post-mortem examination which was performed at 9.30 a.m., on the same day, by a medical board of three doctors.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post- fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group-b blood on the clothes of deceased.
the clothes of the accused recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory. according to report human semen was detected on underwear and human blood of group 'b' was detected on the underwear.
the accused was arrested on 3.4.1991 on suspicion.
on 4.4.1991, he was medically examined.
there was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
the clothes on his person did not have any blood or seminal stains.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
on 5.4.1991, he gave an information exbt. p/23 and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18.3.1991 were recovered.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
according to report exbt. p/27 human semen was detected on underwear.
according to report exbt. p/30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group 'b' was detected on the underwear.
the accused-appellant has been held guilty of offences punishable under section 302 and section 376(2)(f) of indian penal code.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr. p.c., the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.

ARGUMENT
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302  ipc  was sought to be substantiated on circumstantial evidence.
one of the circumstantial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of 'b' group was found on the accused's pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under-pant of the accused.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant's under-pant, the court observed that the accused was a grown-up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
on his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
presence of semen stain on underwear, assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard, is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.

ISSUE
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.


ANALYSIS
there is nothing in child witness’s  statement to suggest that what she is narrating in the court is the story of a day soon before the date and time of the incident or the date on which dead body of s was found.
to constitute evidence of last seen together, the evidence must definitely permit an inference being drawn that the victim and the accused were seen together at a point of time in close proximity with the time and date of the commission of crime.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town, if called by police and interrogated as a suspect, would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr. p.c. and nowhere suggested during cross-examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
the plea of alibi postulates the physical impossibility of the presence of the accused at the scene of offence by reason of his presence at another place.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not, by any stretch of reasoning or logic, amount to pleading alibi.
the accused-appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false, and then drawing an inference adverse to him, does not arise at all.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so-called absconding as a piece of incriminating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating, by the trial court and the high court, can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
though the offence is gruesome and revolts the human conscience but an accused can be convicted only on legal evidence and if only a chain of circumstantial evidence has been so forged as to rule out the possibility of any other reasonable hypothesis excepting the guilt of the accused.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 (supra), this court cautioned - "human nature is too willing, when faced with brutal crimes, to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
the court has held time and again that between may be true and must be true there is a long distance to travel which must be covered by clear, cogent and unimpeachable evidence by the prosecution before an accused is condemned a convict.
the trial court and the high court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evidence out of which we have found, as stated hereinabove, four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
the factum of a cognizable crime having been committed is known but neither the identity of the accused is disclosed nor is there any indication available of the witnesses who would be able to furnish useful and relevant evidence.
the ends, which the administration of criminal justice serves, are not achieved merely by catching hold of the culprit.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
this is necessary to exclude the likelihood of any innocent having been picked up and branded as culprit and then the gravity of the offence arousing human sympathy persuading the mind to be carried away by doubtful or dubious circumstances treating them as of 'beyond doubt' evidentiary value.

