FACTS
the company preferred two writ petitions challenging the orders passed by the district magistrate/collector,meerut and board of revenue dated 18th december,1995 and 3rd august,1996 respectively.
the aforesaid orders were also challenged by the state government.
the writ petitions were disposed of by the learned single judge of allahabad high court by a common judgment dated 1st march,2011.
by the said judgment,the high court directed the state government to pay the company the compensation on the basis of the compromise reached between the state government and the tenure holder company for acquisition of their land by meerut development authority.
it is also directed that out of compensation paid by the meerut development authority (about rs.4.33 crores) an amount of rs.1.62 crores shall be deducted and the remaining amount shall be paid to the company.
the state has been given liberty to realize the said amount from those authorities to whom it was wrongly paid by the previous collector,tulsi gaur,under his order dated 20th february,1992.
a piece of land of the company was put to auction for recovery of dues of the company.
it was challenged by the company by filing a writ petition.
the high court by impugned judgment dated 27th april,2001 cancelled the auction sale and allowed the writ petition.
the proprietors of respondent company,namely m/s.jaswant sugar mills ltd.had six business units as under: m/s.jaswant sugar mills,meerut straw board mills, pootha farm, northern india paper mills, bindal vanaspati ghee mills. meduwala open pan sugar,bijnor.
the company was in heavy arrears as on 3rd january,1977 to the extent of rs.1.14 crores.accordingly,the district collector,meerut appointed a receiver under section 286-a of u.p.zamindari abolition and land reforms act.
pursuant to "uttar pradesh imposition of ceiling of land holdings act" (hereinafter referred to as the "ceiling act"),land admeasuring 723.3 bigha belonging to the company was declared surplus.
against the same a writ petition no.3905/1987 was preferred by the company.
by judgment and order dated 7th july,2010 passed in special appeal nos.5179-80/2010,the high court quashed the interim order dated 17th july,1997 passed by the learned single judge.
it was ordered to dispose of the writ petition expeditiously.
in the meantime,the district collector by its notice dated 22nd august,2005,directed the company to refund certain amount.
the said notice was also challenged by the company.
the high court by judgment and order dated 23rd february,2011 quashed the notice dated 22nd august,2005 with direction to the appellant to pay the compensation amount to the company.
however,it was clarified that if the land,which have been acquired finally,does not fall within the ceiling limit of the company,then it will be open for the state to recover it after the finalisation of the ceiling proceedings,as per law.
subsequently,impugned common judgment and order dated 1st march,2011 was passed in writ petition no.31378/1996,etc.,with observation and directions as referred to above.

ARGUMENT
the grievance of the appellant-state is that the high court while passing the impugned order has not noticed the liability incurred by the undertaking and the loan paid to the company.
no amount,whatsoever,is due and payable by the company to the state.
till date,there has not been a single determination/adjudication by any court/authority of any dues against the company nor is there any claim pending before any authority or before any court,on date.
furthermore,the state has not been able to produce any recovery certificate of any department showing any dues against the company.
the collector has no power to adjudicate the dues under the u.p.zamindari abolition and land revenue act and is merely a recovery agent to recover sums payable as arrears of land revenue,upon receipt of a valid recovery certificate.

ISSUE
the aforesaid orders have been challenged in c.a.no.7122 of 2003 (m/s. rudra estate pvt.ltd.&; anr.vs. jaswant sugar mills ltd.&; ors.),c.a.nos.7123-7124 of 2003,c.a.no.7125 of 2003 (shri munindra singh &; anr.vs. jaswant sugar mills ltd.&; ors. and c.a.nos.7126-7129 of 2003 (commissioner,meerut division,meerut vs. m/s jaswant sugar mills ltd.


ANALYSIS
the company was under heavy arrears as on 3rd january,1977.therefore,the district collector,meerut appointed the receiver.
subsequently,sugar mill of the company was acquired on 28th october,1984 under sugar undertakings acquisition act,1971 and the unit was vested with the u.p.state sugar corporation.
it is also not in dispute that labour and other dues were payable by the company apart from sale tax dues and the loan was given by the state government between 1977-1984 for payment of such dues.
the high court though noticed that s.8 of the u.p.state sugar undertakings acquisition act,1971 empowers the prescribed authority to decide any dispute regarding the amount payable to any person or authority in respect of earlier liabilities of the undertaking,but it wrongly held that in view of the provisions of the u.p.sugar undertakings acquisition act,1971 any liability incurred by the company or loan etc.taken by the receiver is not payable by the company.
it is always open to the competent authority to seek recovery of the amount if due from the company or to adjust the dues.
the court heard the parties only on the limited question as to why the amount which has been directed to be refunded to the auction purchasers-appellants herein should not bear reasonable interest.
one cannot hold of any statute entitling the auction purchasers to claim interest,in case the auction got cancelled or set aside by the court of law.
counsel for the parties also could not refer any of the clauses of auction prescribing interest on refund of amount in case of cancellation of auction or sale.
in state of maharashtra and others vs.maimuma banu and others,(2003) 7 scc 448 2003 indlaw sc 625,the question arose as to whether interest was payable on rental compensation.
in the said case,government resolution provided for payment of rental compensation expeditiously but no provision was made to pay interest in case of delayed payment.
this court in the said case held that the   crucial question is whether there can be any direction for interest on rental compensation once it is held that the same has to be paid within the time frame,notwithstanding the fact that there is no statutory obligation.
appeals are allowed to the extent indicated without any stipulation of costs.
taking into consideration the aforesaid factor while working out equities,it would,therefore,be appropriate to direct the state to pay interest at the rate of 6% on the amount to be refunded as per the high court's order.

